After developing FTL technology for the first time using the Alcubierre Drive principle (which quickly became known as Warp thanks to a classic television series), humans explored the stars nearest to Sol. Very few planets discovered were habitable, and so humanity developed terraforming technology, which they built into large ships called Terraformers. These Terraformers were intended to be sent on multi-decade missions, and so they were crewed by AGI - Artificial General Intelligence, or "true" AIs. The development of AGI was controversial, but despite some early problems, there was no Robot War - the AGIs were broadly content with their role and seemed happy to contribute to humanity's success.

With their help, humanity spread to about one hundred star systems, though travel between any of them took a great deal of time thanks to the primitive Warp drives available at the time. Humanity then made another technological break - the development of Jump technology. Jump Gates allowed for instantaneous travel between two linked Gates. Humanity build many such pairs of Gates across the [[Terran Sector]].

This was when the Terran Sector was invaded by the [[The Universal Union]] - an expansive and powerful alien empire. Their *casus belli* was AGI - they claimed that AGI were too great a risk to the entire galaxy to allow their existence.

They destroyed most of humanity’s terraforming fleets and destroyed and suppressed knowledge of how to rebuild them.

Humanity attempted to resist nearly constantly over the decades of imperial rule, but even with alien technology, the empire was so much larger than humanity that they were able to suppress any resistance by reinforcing their fleets, and humans were not allowed to expand their colonies or leave the Terran sector.

However, the empire’s reign over humanity came to an end two hundred years ago - the exact details have been slowly pieced together, as news is unreliable and only comes from visiting aliens. An internal rebellion by an alliance of conquered peoples triggered a supernova which obliterated the empire’s core planets and a large portion of its military might. The galactic war is evidently still ongoing, and what remains of the empire still blockades human travel from leaving the Terran sector.

As a consequence, the empire withdrew from the Terran sector, but not before incinerating the entire surface of the Earth in spiteful retaliation for humanity’s resistance. 500 billion - almost two-thirds of all humanity - were killed. Many more died due to the loss of humanity’s greatest institutions of learning, expertise, manufacturing, and food production, and in the wars that followed.

Humanity is not unified, but it is slowly recovering - TSN news even has reported that census data they’ve collected from across the sector shows that the population is no longer stagnant - it’s growing again for the first time since the Great Conflagration! It’s an exciting new era for adventurous types like you - as the crew of a small starship, will you try to strike it rich by trade? Try to solve problems for your fellow humanity (and maybe aliens too)? Get involved with politics and try to unify humanity - or sunder it further? Or perhaps you will join the ranks so many others have and turn to piracy, and take what you need to survive?