In the pre-Warp era of Earth history, stars were given various names. As humanity colonized the stars, however, names were given to the planets they settled on - and the place-names of star systems changed to refer to those planets instead. With the exception of the Sol system (still named for the star), a given system's name refers to the primary planets there, not to the star. For example, the Armstrong system refers to the planet Armstrong, which orbits the star Wolf 359.

On a basic map of the [[Terran Sector]], only the largest and most important planet (or settled moon) of a system will be listed. Sometimes a second planet of similar importance will be listed (for example, the planet Wright in the Meier system).

Any number of other planets, moons, or other settlements may exist within a given system. The Sol system, for example, once had Earth as its primary planet, but inhabited worlds included Mercury, Luna, Ceres, Ganymede, Europa, Callisto, Io, Titan, and Enceladus, among others.

Planets are sometimes referred to with clarification denoting their system. For example, the planet Lucienne's Dream is the sixth planet of the Hawking system, and so might be referred to as Hawking 6, or as Lucienne's Dream (Hawking 6). The primary planet of a system is usually simply referred to by name ("Hawking"), but occasionally are referred to as Prime - so "Hawking Prime" refers to the planet Hawking, (which is also Hawking 2).

Inhabited moons are referred to with an "X/Y" designation. Luna would be denoted as "Sol 3/1", and Ganymede as "Sol 5/3". If the parent planet is well-known enough, shorthand is sometimes used, such as Ganymede being "Jupiter 3", but as this creates confusion with Prime planets, it is fairly uncommon.